# imdb-ratings-analysis

In a competitive industry like film and television, understanding audience behavior and contributors to high ratings is key to optimizing production, marketing, and investment decisions. IMDb is one of many platforms that collect and aggregate public opinion data on film and television, and their data often drives trends and performance. To better anticipate audience reception, production companies and marketers must identify which characteristics and features influence higher ratings on platforms like IMDb and subsequently public approval. 

Our team conducted a regression analysis on data from the site IMDb, where movies, their information, and user reviews are stored. This dataset is a CSV file from Kaggle containing over 7,000 records and 14 variables, linked below. The variables are Name, Date, Rate, Votes, Genre, Duration, Type, Certificate, Episodes, Nudity, Violence, Profanity, Alcohol, and Frightening. The target variable is the IMDB rating, a trusted source for television and movie reviews. Depending on the model, all other variables will be used as predictors for the ratings. To evaluate the movie’s quality and audience reception, we will analyze the importance of each of these variables and then create a model to predict the rating of a movie with certain characteristics. Our analyses will lead us to answer the question of which factors contribute to higher IMDB ratings. We will also discover how IMDB ratings vary across different genres and types of film. We would like to analyze the characteristics of highly-rated films and series and how production companies can optimize content for better reception.
